sports the thing you weren't quite good
enough at for your dad to love you I
absolutely love sports in fact the only
times I've cried as a grown man I've
been while watching actors playing
cultures deliver inspirational speeches
set to stirring music this game is not
over this battle is not over listen up
this is our time now second half is our
time that's gonna make the difference
between clear eyes full hearts
[Applause]
we are all lucky that Kyle Chandler is
not a Scientologist
or I would be broke and married to Mimi
Rogers right now that's a fact
that's a true fact but look tonight
we're not gonna talk about the players
on the field we're gonna talk about the
fields themselves stadiums America has a
lot of them and they are increasingly
fantastic at the home of the Dallas
Cowboys here's what you also get real
art by world-renowned artists the party
suite is all about watching the game or
concert in style you can do bottle
service you can set up come in before
the game you know you get the snakeskin
you know that had the gold aged so
everybody knows where you're sitting
there are 14 party cabanas and two pools
watched by lifeguards that looked out on
the field just look toward the end zone
yep those swimming pools are inside the
stadium that's right you can now watch a
game from a swimming pool suspended
above the field where the real contest
for the fans is finding out whether or
not HPV can swim Hey my money's on HPV
that's a clutch STD that's clutch most
new stadiums nowadays look like they
were designed by a coked-up Willy Wonka
and if you don't believe me
just look at what the Miami Marlins have
in their new ballpark
that's a fish tank around the hole part
that is awesome yes the Marlins have
actual aquariums behind home plate which
is indeed awesome because you get to
watch baseball while at the same time
watching fish develop panic disorders
all those new finches are clearly
incredible the problem is they're also
expensive and the vast majority of
stadiums are built using public money
one analysis found that between 2000 and
2010 we spent 12 billion dollars
building new facilities for professional
teams which begs the question why sports
teams are successful businesses with
wealthy owners and yet they still get
our help two years ago Detroit got
approval to spend more than 280 million
dollars in taxpayer
money on a new arena project for the Red
Wings just six days after the city filed
for bankruptcy even though the Red Wings
owner is Mike Ilitch the founder of the
Little Caesars pizza chain who's worth
an estimated 5.1 billion that's a little
hard to swallow
I mean sure not as hard to swallow as a
little Caesars crazy breads with an
assortment of Caesar dips but still
pretty hard and we don't just help teams
build stadiums we let them keep
virtually all the revenue those stadiums
then produce just listen to the
president of the Miami Marlins described
they're not at all unusual deal you get
the income from naming rights yes you
get the income from concessions yes you
get the luxury box income yes you get
the income from non-baseball events
that's the whole object of this is to
get more revenue wow that's that's
pretty direct hey you think I've got
into this because I like sports what are
you a child who let a child host a
television show this is all about the
money son that money he mentioned naming
rights in there and it is true for most
teams if you sell the name of your
building you get to keep the money even
when it's as stupid as this the New
Orleans pelicans are going to be playing
their home games at the Smoothie King
Center yeah the Smoothie King Center and
you have to feel a bit for the pelicans
players it can't be easy to protect your
home court when it's named after a slop
of yogurt and kale ejaculated from a
blender but owners monetizing every part
of a stadium is so ingrained it's even
now a feature in the Madden NFL video
game we're adding the ability to run
your team as an NFL owner being an owner
isn't just about talking though it's
about taking action set prices on
concessions merchandising tickets
upgrade your state improve everything
from the parking lot to the locker room
it's incredible the owner experience is
apparently so realistic that if you
unlock a secret level you can even deal
with the aftermath of making a racist
comment that's that's incredible
attention to detail
gamer's teams teams are so successful at
pushing for upgraded stadiums that since
the early 90s we've had a replacement
rate of over 90% we replace stadiums
even faster than we replace spider-men
and come on
what Tobey Maguire and Andrew Garfield
were perfectly good state of the art
spider-man almost every single team gets
some kind of public money some like the
Yankees might build the stadium
themselves but on lands that they're
given rent and property tax free costing
New York City hundreds of millions in
lost revenues but many others get their
stadiums funded through tax-exempt
municipal bonds which yes sound like the
last words an accountant says before his
blind date falls asleep at the dinner
table but but they're actually
incredibly important so so let me
quickly try to explain municipal bonds
are a way for the city to take out a
loan which they then later repay with
interest although usually through new or
existing taxes they're supposed to be
for things like roads or schools or
public goods that private industry would
not pay for but they've been routinely
misused to finance stadiums for decades
and often cities do it because teams
claim they can't afford to build
stadiums themselves the Marlins got
nearly 500 million dollars toward their
fish traumatising theme park by pleading
poverty although when miami-dade county
tried to verify that something strange
happened among the questions they asked
was can we see your books you said no
right
why didn't you just open the books
because isn't that easier because in
Major League Baseball history books are
just kept private that's just how it is
sure but if the argument in major league
baseball history
that's just how it is always won we'd
still have an all-white league of
players gambling on games smoking
cigarettes at the plate and dying of
syphilis
but then leaked documents later revealed
that despite denying they made a profit
the Marling's had generated nearly 50
million over the previous two years and
listen pretending you're poor is wrong
it wasn't okay
when mary-kate Olsen went through her
hobo phase and it's not okay now and we
haven't even mentioned the ultimate
bargaining chip the teams like to use
threatening to leave right now the
Oakland Raiders the st. Louis Rams and
the San Diego Chargers are all
threatened to move to Los Angeles unless
they get new stadiums in fact over the
past two decades nearly half the NFL has
been subject to speculation about a move
to LA it's such a cliche that in the
current map and video game if you want a
new stadium a good way to do that is to
relocate the team and the game even
tells you the easiest choice financially
is guess where lots Angeles and if
you're a Chargers fan that must be
pretty infuriating oh come on
even my make-believe escapist
entertainment he's trying to move my
team to LA in fact Chargers fans
are currently so terrified their team
might leave not only are they
campaigning to spend public money on a
stadium they're doing it in one of the
worst rap songs of all time
die horribly is almost whether a rampage
I journal dies I hope you understand why
I got the best
I hate on him they deserve a brand new
stadium safety ankle the finest city say
the ankle the second-largest city our
committee and Eagle make it money so put
it back in our city
wait wait wait wait wait go back did he
say second-largest city that is a
strange boast for a rap song yo I got
the second hottest car because I'm the
second most paid when I go to the club I
get the second most laid I'm not the two
yo not the team and teams are shameless
in manipulating city's fears in 1997 the
Minnesota Twins even ran an ad showing a
player visiting a child in hospital with
cancer and the tagline if the twins
leave Minnesota an eight year old from
Willmar undergoing chemotherapy will
never get a visit from Marty Cordova
which is less like the make-a-wish
Foundation and more like the maker
threats foundation but teams don't just
use threats to get what they want they
also promised that new stadiums can work
economic magic the Milwaukee Bucks who
are also currently threatening to leave
if they don't get a new arena or running
this ad now the ripple effect starts
this is Wisconsin's home from the court
to concerts and opportunity the ripple
effect of a new era begins today it
spreads across the river village up
through Roseville and across the great
state of Wisconsin settle down reel
walking box for a start
I don't think Wisconsin will be
transformed by one new arena and also if
you really are looking to make a
tangible change how about coming up with
a better slogan than fear the deer deers
aren't scary they're timid forest ponies
with sticks on their heads
I fear no deer the truth is stadiums
very rarely revitalized their
surrounding areas all create large
numbers of permanent jobs just listen to
one bar owner near that new Marlins
ballpark he says since the stadium
opened in 2012 not only of his profits
not risen on game days his regular stay
away afraid of the traffic here is a
business owner we don't see any changes
I could even say it's hurting us of
course it is because no one has ever
said hey let's go hang out in the area
around the stadium and I'll tell you why
I've got a new shirt and I really want
someone to vomit Miller Lite and nachos
all over it in fact a major review of
almost 20 years of studies showed
economists could find no substantial
evidence that stadiums had increased
jobs incomes or tax revenues or to put
that another way this one economist said
to me I love this line he said your
rather than spend a billion dollars on a
stadium you're actually better off
flying a plane over a city and dumping a
billion dollars on the populace and just
letting them pick up the money and spend
it
to be fair that is not a great idea for
the economy but is a fantastic idea for
a new reality show tune in this Sunday
for Ryan Seacrest's billion dollar job
only on NBC and it gets one step worse
because when you use public money to pay
for an expensive stadium you might find
yourself unable to afford something you
badly need Hamilton County in Ohio was
estimated to spend 15 million last year
on debts and other costs for the Bengals
and the red stadiums
even though since building them they've
had to sell a public hospital cut 1,700
jobs and delay payments for schools
because of budget gaps and it might not
even end there because there's a clause
in the contract that states if 14 other
NFL stadiums have something then
taxpayers must buy the bengals that
thing and here is how comprehensive that
clause is taxpayers are also on the hook
for all kinds of future bells and
whistles some that haven't even been
invented yet
at some point taxpayers are have also
agreed to pay for a holograph replay
machine someday it's true the Bengals
have a deal whereby if someone invents
holographic instant replay in the future
the county has to buy it for them and
that's the kind of clause owners put
into a deal in order to take it out
during negotiations which begs the
question what else was in there look we
want a helipad a submarine dock and a
monkey named professor bananas to hang
out in the locker enjoying halftime or
we're moving the team to LA but teams
get these deals because they know
politicians will capitulate and give
them whatever they want
remember Milwaukee what just Monday just
this Monday their mayor argued for a new
stadium deal he admits is not perfect
with this appeal to civic pride I was in
China 10 years ago I was on the Great
Wall of China and I had a Milwaukee
t-shirt on and I'm the Great Wall of
China
this guy Chinese guy came up to me said
Milwaukee Bucks that's a
to me it's important to all of us okay
okay the only possible way that story is
true is if that Chinese man happened to
be former Milwaukee Bucks player is
Zhang Liang rather Lee Milwaukee Bucks
two seasons by average eight point six
points again
and you could almost sympathize because
when politicians do try to stand up to
teams it can cost them last month the
City Council of Glendale Arizona voted
to try and get out of an awful deal with
the Coyotes whose hockey arena was
costing them more than eight million
dollars per year the mayor held a public
hearing and it did not go well I support
this team it's you that doesn't support
any sport in the city not football and
certainly not hockey what you're doing
is childish it's pathetic and it's just
disrespectful
what well I can see her passion is real
you don't get to call someone childish
when you are the one arguing for
spending millions of public dollars you
don't have to keep a giant slab of ice
in Arizona just days after that coyotes
fans raised money so that she could tase
the mayor for charity taser taser taser
okay okay okay first of all do you have
to say taser three times before tasing
someone you're not tasing beetlejuice
and second no one should want to stadium
so badly they're willing to electrocute
an old man for it and look I know sports
can make people behave irrationally for
instance some where there is a man with
this actual tattoo of Tim Tebow as a
center that makes no sense but but we
have to come to our senses and stop
signing these deals and if you think it
will John there's no way it's just too
hard let me persuade you to fight back
in the only way that I know works an
inspirational halftime speech set to
music
please American sports fans I really
need you to join me in the locker room
it turns out to have ourselves a talk
an emotional inspiring talk so gather
round and at home you might want to take
a knee I know things look bad out there
these owners have been humiliating us
for decades I'm sure we could just give
up we could roll over and let them do it
to us for another 20 years we could do
that or right here tonight we could
decide to fight back mmm and I'm not
saying we shouldn't have giant aquariums
in ballparks full of terrified fish of
course we should this is America if we
don't have them no one else will but we
should not be using public money to pay
for them and yeah teams might threaten
to leave you that might happen but I
happen to believe that your cities are
more than just the teams who happen to
play their st. Louis stand up stand up
st. Louis and look at me you're more
than just the ramps you're more than
just the ramps you're a proud Midwestern
metropolis your home of the st. Louis
Arch San Diego you're the second largest
city in California that's not nothing
that's not nothing that's a solid number
two and you Cincinnati you're the home
of the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame
that's Cleveland
whether you hear that you're the
hometown of astronaut Jim Lovell and
Emmy award-winning actress Carol Kane
that's Cleveland as well I'm sorry
you might have to hang on to the Bengals
but for the rest of you for the rest of
you I want you to look deep down inside
your heart I want you to dig in there
and I want you to find something and
it's gonna seem tiny but it's the most
powerful thing in the world and it's the
word anymore so when a billionaire asked
you to buy him a hologram machine that
doesn't exist yet what are you gonna say
that's right and when when they ask you
for public money without opening their
books what are you gonna say to him
that's right and when they ask you if
they can keep all the money for calling
their arenas Smoothie King Center what
are you gonna say to them no that's
right because that's a stupid name for
anything even a smoothie store so listen
to me because I want you all to get out
there and the next time a team comes
around asking for a new stadium I want
you to make them pay what are you gonna
do
[Applause]
Starro that
[Music]
you